[WiP] doc: Add draft of the 'mesh-adapter-api' documentation. (#34)
homersoft/bluez: doc/mesh-adapter-api.txt

BlueZ D-Bus Mesh Adapter API description
********************************

Overview
========

> This document describes API for mesh adapters. It allows to granting and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document describes API for mesh adapters. It allows granting and
```

revoking access for MicroGateway and reading connection statistics.

AccessControlList Hierarchy
===========================
Service		org.bluez.mesh
Interface	org.bluez.mesh.AccessControlList1
Object path	/org/bluez/mesh/{tcpserver_<port>}
                                where <port> is a TCP port on which
                                TCP server is listening.

Methods:
    uint64 token GrantAccess(array{byte}[16] uuid,
                             array{byte}[16] dev_key,
                             array{byte}[16] net_key)

        This is method that an application has to call to grant access for

>         microGateway. Based on passed arguments it computes an identity and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Grants access to an internal TCP server to a microGateway defined by
        its UUID & device and network keys. Computes an identity and
        a pre-shared key based on these arguments.
```

        a pre-shared-key. Computed values with generated random token are
        permanently stored in the configuration file as an ACL entry.

        The token parameter is a 64-bit number that has been assigned to
        the access entry when it was created. The daemon uses the token
        to verify whether the application is authorized revoke access.

        array{byte}[16] uuid

            UUID of the MicroGateway.

        array{byte}[16] dev_key

            Device Key of the MicroGateway.

        array{byte}[16] net_key

            Network Key of the network on which MicroGateway is provisioned.

        PossibleErrors:
            org.bluez.mesh.Error.AlreadyExists
            org.bluez.mesh.Error.InvalidArguments
            org.bluez.mesh.Error.Failed

    void RevokeAccess(uint64 token)

>         This removes the ACL entry identified by the 64-bit token parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Removes the ACL entry identified by the 64-bit token parameter.
```

BlueZ D-Bus Mesh Adapter API description
********************************

Overview
========

This document describes API for mesh adapters. It allows granting and

> revoking access for MicroGateway and reading connection statistics.

Reviewer 2: I wouldn't mention MicroGateway in the documentation. Just call it 'TLS clients' or something.

AccessControlList Hierarchy
===========================
Service		org.bluez.mesh
Interface	org.bluez.mesh.AccessControlList1
Object path	/org/bluez/mesh/{tcpserver_<port>}
                                where <port> is a TCP port on which
                                TCP server is listening.

Methods:
    uint64 token GrantAccess(array{byte}[16] uuid,
                             array{byte}[16] dev_key,
                             array{byte}[16] net_key)

        Grants access to an internal TCP server to a microGateway defined by
        its UUID & device and network keys. Computes an identity and
        a pre-shared key based on these arguments.

>         a pre-shared-key. Computed values with generated random token are

Reviewer 2: Duplicated wording?

        the access entry when it was created. The daemon uses the token
        to verify whether the application is authorized revoke access.

        array{byte}[16] uuid

            UUID of the MicroGateway.

        array{byte}[16] dev_key

            Device Key of the MicroGateway.

        array{byte}[16] net_key

            Network Key of the network on which MicroGateway is provisioned.

        PossibleErrors:
            org.bluez.mesh.Error.AlreadyExists
            org.bluez.mesh.Error.InvalidArguments
            org.bluez.mesh.Error.Failed

    void RevokeAccess(uint64 token)

        Removes the ACL entry identified by the 64-bit token parameter.
        The token parameter has been obtained as a result of successful
        GrantAccess() method call.

        PossibleErrors:
            org.bluez.mesh.Error.InvalidArguments
            org.bluez.mesh.Error.NotFound
            org.bluez.mesh.Error.Failed

Connection State Hierarchy
==========================
Service		org.bluez.mesh
Interface	org.bluez.mesh.ConnectionState1
Object path	/org/bluez/mesh/<adapter>/<name>
                where <adapter> is an adapter identifier e.g. {tcpserver_65254}

>                 <name> is connection name for TCPServer it is an identity.

Reviewer 2: Rename `<name>` placeholder to `<identity>`, reword to: "`<identity>` is client TLS identity hint, calculated by the daemon during `GrantAccess` call.

Question: since GrantAccess returns just the token, how should one obtain object path for the created connection? I'd like the key derivation to be handled internally, so that the applicatuon doesn't need to perform any crypto operations. Maybe it would be better to return token *and* object path?

BlueZ D-Bus Mesh Adapter API description
********************************

> 

Reviewer 2: Some intro would be nice (what and why, what are the current limitations).
Mention that the adapters are persistent.

Mesh Network Hierarchy
======================
Service		org.bluez.mesh
Interface	org.bluez.mesh.AdapterManager1

> Object path	/org/bluez/mesh/adapter

Reviewer 2: Let's keep this at `/org/bluez/mesh/`

Methods:
	uint64 token Add(string io_type, dict config)

	    This is method that an application has to call to
	    add a new mesh adapter with an IO type.

	    The config parameter is a dictionary with configuration

> 	    options specific for the chosen IO type. In case of "tcpserver",

Reviewer 2: I think every IO type should have a defined tuple of settings that are meant to be unique. For example, in case of UART adapter this would be just the device name, while for TCP server this would be (UUID, DeviceKey, NetworkKey).

Let's document this for each io type separately.

	    mesh adapter with given UUID and NetworkKey can added only once.
	    When adapter with UUID and NetworkKey is already exists then
	    AlreadyExists error will be raised. When one of required
	    configuration options is missing then InvalidArguments
	    error will be raised.

        string io_type

            This parameter choose which IO type will be used
            to communicate with an adapter.

>             The defined values are: "tcpserver", "silvair"

Reviewer: If this is to be merged upstream, I believe `silvair` has to be changed.

Author: I guess that this will not be merged to the upstream. @michallowasrzechonek-silvair Am I right?

Reviewer 2: I don't see that happening anytime soon. That being said, I think we should clean up the naming. "silvair" is too generic and misleading, since it in fact means 'uart' (or even 'tty').

Reviewer 2: OTOH, I think it's high time we fix the naming. "silvar" is a bit random and definitely too generic.

Question: what other (crazy as they might be) io types can we come up with? Ideas:
 - mgmt, for mesh-specific extensions to Linux mgmt API
 - gatt, for GATT proxy

Reviewer: * `stdin` :laughing:

Reviewer 2: Yeah, stdin and json :P

        dict config

            Options available for the "tcpserver" IO:

                int Port

                    Port for listening for incoming connections.

>                     This field is mandatory.

Reviewer: Is this port on `meshd` (server) side or uGW (client)? If it's the former, then the daemon should already know it. Or does this option turn the TCP server on?

Author: It is `meshd` (server) side port. You are right it can be defined during daemon start.

Reviewer 2: It's the server side, so it might make sense to make this optional with some default.

Also, we're missing the list of interfaces (IP addresses) the server should bind to - at the moment we bind to `INADDR_ANY`, but this should be configurable.

                array{byte}[16] UUID

>                     uGateway UUID in 16-byte array format.

Reviewer 2: This doesn't need to be "uGateway" - change the wording to mention that this data is used to derive TLS keys, and describe how.

>                     This field is mandatory.

Reviewer 2: I think a nicer convention is to mark the field as `[optional]`.

                array{byte}[16] DeviceKey

                    uGateway Device Key in 16-byte array format.
                    This field is mandatory.

                array{byte}[16] NetworkKey

                    uGateway Network Key in 16-byte array format.
                    Device must be already provisioned.
                    This field is mandatory.

            Options available for the "silvair" IO:

                string SerialPort

                    Serial port to which Silvair Radio is attached.

                int Baudrate

>                     Serial port baudrate value.

Reviewer: Aren't these mandatory as well?

Author: Those are also mandatory. But I am not sure if we want define API for Silvair.

Reviewer 2: I think API would be useful. Also, baudrate can easily be optional - sufficiently 'modern' TTY-USB adapters (depending on the mode) simply ignore that setting, and work with whatever value. This is because USB itself doesn't have a notion of 'baudrate', so this is an interface for non-USB ports only.

                string Mode

>                     Serial port mode: 8N1.

Reviewer 2: Split that into separate options.

		PossibleErrors:
		    org.bluez.mesh.Error.InvalidArguments,

> 		    org.bluez.mesh.Error.AlreadyExists,

Reviewer: This should be indented less by 1 level.

	void Remove(uint64 token)

        This removes the configuration information about the mesh adapter
        identified by the 64-bit token parameter. The token parameter
        has been obtained as a result of successful Add() method call.
        When configuration for adapter with passed toked does not exist
        NotFound error will be raised.

	    PossibleErrors:
	        org.bluez.mesh.Error.NotFound,

> 	        org.bluez.mesh.Error.Failed

Reviewer 2: When would we fail to remove an adapter?

Author: In case fail during save to file or database?

Reviewer 2: Let's mention that in the doc, then.

	void Configure(uint64 token, dict config)

	    This configures mesh adapter identified by the 64-bit token
	    parameter. The token parameter has been obtained as a result of
	    successful Add() method call. The config parameter should
	    contains options related to selected IO type, in case of
	    passed parameter that is not supported by the IO type, then
	    InvalidArguments error will be raised. If configuration with
	    passed token doesn't exist then NotFound error will be raised.

	    PossibleErrors:
	        org.bluez.mesh.Error.NotFound,
	        org.bluez.mesh.Error.InvalidArguments

Mesh Network Hierarchy
======================
Service		org.bluez.mesh
Interface	org.bluez.mesh.Adapter1
Object path	/org/bluez/mesh/adapter/{io_type}/<id>
                where <id> can be Adapter UUID or
                Serial port name (depends on IO type).

Methods:
	void Remove(uint64 token)

        This removes the configuration information about the mesh adapter
        identified by the 64-bit token parameter. The token parameter
        has been obtained as a result of successful Add() method call.

		PossibleErrors:
		    org.bluez.mesh.Error.NotFound,

> 		    org.bluez.mesh.Error.Failed

Reviewer: How does this differ from `Remove` on `/org/bluez/mesh/adapter`?

Author: Currently there is no difference.

Reviewer 2: Then let's keep that call in `AdapterManager`.

Properties:
    bool Connected [read-only]

>         This property indicates if the mesh adapter is connected.

Reviewer: This means that 1 `meshd` instance can only connect to a single adapter?

Author: The idea is to have separate instance for each mesh adapter. So this doesn't mean that only single adapter can be connected.

    string LastError [read-only]

        This property indicates last error.

        The defined values are: "none", "handshake-error"

    uint64 SentCount [read-only]

>         This property indicates count of sent messages.

Reviewer 2: Let's add a timestamp of last-transmitted and last-received message.

Reviewer 2: And counters for dropped messages as well

    uint64 ReceivedCount [read-only]

>         This property indicates count of received messages.

Reviewer 2: I would be nice to have additional properties here, depending on the io type. For example, tcpserver might show client's IP.

BlueZ D-Bus Mesh Adapter API description
********************************

Overview
========

This document describes IO types and API for mesh adapters management.

> It allows for adding / configure new mesh adapter and store it configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It allows adding / configuring new mesh adapters and storing their configuration
```
